# Prova Finale Ingegneria del Software 2023

## Gruppo AM39

- ### Simone Di Gregorio ([@DiGregorioSimone](https://github.com/DiGregorioSimone))
- ### Daniele Bergamaschi ([@Bergamaschi-Daniele](https://github.com/Bergamaschi-Daniele))
- ### Riccardo Adorante ([@RiccardoAdorante](https://github.com/RiccardoAdorante))
- ### Alessio Bezzi ([@AlessioBezzi](https://github.com/AlessioBezzi))
###

| Functionality        | State |
|:---------------------|:-----:|
| Basic rules          |  游릭   |
| Complete rules       |  游릭   |
| RMI                  |  游릭   |
| TCP                  |  游릭   |
| GUI                  |  游릭   |
| CLI                  |  游릭   |
| FA: Multiple matches |  游릭   |
| FA: Resilience to disconnections   |  游리   |
| FA: Chat             |  游릭   |

游댮 Not started
游리 In progress
游릭 Complete



## Documentazione

### Librerie e Plugins

| Libreria/Plugin  | Descrizione |

| Maven   | Tool to organize, simplify and automatize all JAVA app lifeCyle operations   |

| GSON    | JSON parsing library (used for loading game resources such as cards,leaders... and for network protocol)                        |

| JavaFX  | Graphic interface library                                                                    |


## How to build

There are two different jars, one for the Client and one for the Server.

To build them, use the classic `package` Maven command, both jars will be generated in the `deliveries/FinalJAR` folder.

Since the .jar files were generated by a windows pc if the .jar file is going to be runned on an apple OS you will 

need to rebuild the .jar files.

## How to Play

### Server

To start the server, open the terminal and change your working directory to the one in which Server.jar is saved, then write the following command:

`java -jar Server.jar`

Server Rmi is started on port 2000 while Sever Tcp is started on port 2001.

### Client

To start the client, open the terminal and change your working directory to the one in which Client.jar is saved, then write the following command:

`java -jar Client.jar`

Once the jar has started, you will choose between which interface you intend to use, so insert : 
- " 1 " : to run CLI 
- " 2 " to run GUI
Then, the terminal will ask you  which network technology you want use, so write :
- " rmi " to start rmi connection
- " tcp " to start tcp connection 


## Advanced features

For this project three advanced features has been implemented: chat, resilience to disconnections and mutiple matches.

### Multiple games

The advanced feature of multiple matches allows starting multiple games simultaneously. Initially, the user will have the option to choose between creating a match or joining one. When creating a match, they will need to enter their nickname and the number of players, while when joining a match, they can only choose their nickname. If there are no available matches, the user will be redirected to the start menu. Once joined to a match, the user will have to wait for other players to join, and in the meantime, they can chat with the others.

### Chat
The advanced chat feature allows players to communicate privately or publicly with other players in the game. In the CLI (Command Line Interface) version, players have the option to chat while waiting for their turn or during the item tile selection menu. In the GUI (Graphical User Interface) version, players can chat both before and during the match at any time. This feature enhances the social interaction and collaboration among players during gameplay.

### Resilience to disconnections

The advanced feature of resilience to disconnections allows players to reconnect and resume the game in the event of a network failure or client crash. This feature has been fully implemented in TCP (Transmission Control Protocol), while in the RMI (Remote Method Invocation) part, disconnection recognition has been implemented along with the corresponding update of components for the players still connected.


### Manual input of IP address and port if not set
If the IP address is not correctly set, before the JAR file starts, the terminal will prompt you to enter the server's IP address and port. For the port, enter :  "2000" if you initially chose RMI, or "2001" for TCP.






